Hello, welcome to the second
edition of the Internet of Things.
As we said before,
Internet of Things is a platform
that built on multiple technologies.
And as technologies go,
we need to consider the printing press,
the telephone, and
the Internet that had huge
impact on humanity and
the world around us.
To understand why this was so,
we need to look at the things
that are common to these
three technologies.
To start with, they all had meteoric race.
[COUGH] The number of books
that were printed starting with
the invention of the printing
press just exploded exponentially.
A lot of the books at
that time were Bible and
maps that enable people to
explore the world around us.
There were scientific
treatments that explained
the nature around us and about ourselves.
And you could print these at one time and
share your knowledge with
millions of people around us.
So all this led to us being able to fight
wars much better in the name of religion,
for looking for
resources at the far ends of the corner,
and we also learned to
make peace much better.
And the technologies that came based on
these principles, other communication and
consumer electronics,
they all had similar meteoric race.
They were completely impervious
to recessions and when wars or
other things happened, they only fueled
the growth of these technologies.
And in the end,
they made everybody extremely rich.
This is the per capita GDP
from 1000 AD till now 2000.
And you can see the inflection point
right around the Industrial Age.
And that's the World Wide Web, and
we're still looking at the oncoming
growth due to Internet of Things.
But in addition to all of these,
these technologies had one more
really important thing in common,
that is communication.
And to understand the power of
communication I would like to play
a little clip from one of my
favorite bands, Pink Floyd,
it's called Keep Talking, Jimmy.
[MUSIC]
>> For millions of years mankind
lived just like the animals.
[MUSIC]
Then something happen which unleashed
the power of our imagination.
We learned to talk.
[MUSIC]
It doesn't have to be like this.
All we need to do is make sure we
keep talking.
>> This is really profound.
Let's parse each one of those.
For million of years mankind
lived just like the animals.
To be exact it took us about 6 million
years to learn how to walk on two feet.
And this required us to coordinate
the visual sensory system,
the vestibular sensory system, and
the proprioception where our ankles and
knee muscles and
the skin at the bottom of our feet.
Combining all of them to correct between
the design orientation that we want
to have with where exactly we are.
And activating the musculoskeletal
system so that we can maintain balance,
so that we can walk, so that we can run,
and get away from the predators.
This is such a complex task that over
those 6 million years our brains became
five times bigger compared to all
mammals relative to body size.
And with respect to the other primates,
our brains were three times bigger.
And this happened mainly
because by walking on two feet,
we were able to scavenge and hunt and
gather much better food and
feed the growing brains.
And around 50,000 years ago,
we learned to build those
much before that, but
around 50,000 years ago as we
were hunting and gathering,
we were in the hands busy,
eyes busy situation much, much longer.
And this is when we learned how
to use local communication,
local signals to convey
more complex ideas.
And this is where language was
born about 50,000 years or so ago.
And this really unleashed
the power of our imagination.
So we are the only animals
that can walk on two feet without
the benefit of wings or tail.
But more importantly,
language is unique to humans.
Other living things do communicate, but
not in the abstract way that
people define language as.
And [COUGH] excuse me, so
this really enabled us to
make innovations in multiple
areas including healthcare.
We conquered infectious diseases,
chronic diseases like
metabolic disorders,
diabetes, and acute diseases.
We made so many improvements
in surgical intervention and
antiseptic surgeries, antibiotics that
we were living much, much longer.
And as we live much longer,
there is natural decline
in our sensory systems, in our brain,
the cortical processing,
and even our motor control systems.
But more importantly, as you're not
able to communicate with others,
hear what they're saying, see them,
participate in activities of daily living,
that leads to many cognitive disorders.
And this is where you can see that
you can almost feel the silence
surrounding you and
you can't think straight.
So taking the society away from us.
We are social animals, we've been
like this for millions of years.
And towards the tail end of our life,
due to injury or
due to aging, that really hurts.
And, So
some of the examples are sensory
impairments that technology
can do really well to compensate,
the motor skills.
We can do a lot of things.
And even on cognitive disorders,
we are making great innovations and
this is [COUGH] really where it
doesn't have to be like this.
We need to make sure we keep
that social connection and
we keep exercising,
keep talking, and keep walking.
And this is where the Internet of Things,
the convergence of multiple
technologies come together.
Specifically, we'll be talking
about circuit switched networks,
packet switched networks,
computer telephony integration, and
how all of these technologies
became mobile with wireless,
all the extra sensors and apps and
features on your smartphones.
And all of this combined is what we call
the Internet of Things, the IoT platform.
And what does the future hold for
all of this?
Clearly the common wisdom is
self-driving automobiles,
machine learning and artificial
intelligence, drones, so on and so forth.
That's really what you see when you,
Look at
IoT applications in Google or
common media or in your school.
The part that we are specifically
focusing on is healthcare applications,
for hearing loss and hearing healthcare,
falls risk assessment and prevention,
sports concussion,
mild traumatic brain injury, stroke, and
rehab, and remote monitoring,
ECG and EEG signals.
And also there are many,
many subjective assessments that
the healthcare professionals use.
And we can use the sensing
aspects of the IoT
to make some of these
assessments more objective and
improve diagnostics and
the way they intervene in providing care.
So the series overview
is we have a total of
five courses that we have significantly
changed compare to the first edition.
The first course is how did we get here,
a historical perspective,
very interesting on its own.
And in the second course,
we combined the out-of-the-box experience
with the single board computer.
We are using Dragonboard 410c.
And how you can connect
it to various sensors and
actuate based on what you sense.
And in Course-3, We talk about how to
take all of this data into the cloud and
leverage cloud services
to send information back
to the variable devices or the sensors.
Course-4 is communication technologies.
Think of it mostly as
one-dimensional signal processing,
voice and voice over IP.
And we also added MIDI as another powerful
way of actuating the sound and music.
Course-5 is multimedia technologies.
We will be focusing a lot on cameras,
image processing and
video processing, and
what we hope you will be able to do
is put all of these together and
create fantastic capstone projects.
So to motivate you,
we will show you some examples
of the capstone projects that
we have put together, enjoy.
Jimmy?